1. Can i rename my branch?
- usually branch names have a unique ID that needs to be used
- how to name the branch: TASKID-description, or TASKID-description-jdoe

command to rename: git branch -m <old branch name> <new branch name>

2. Can I switch to anotehr branch without commiting my changes?
Yes, on your local but it is reccomended to 

3. Can I merge my local branches?
Yes, first switch to your branch that you want to merge all the changes
Then use below command to merge the other branch into current branch
    git merge <other-branch-name>

4. Can i switch to my team member's branch?
Yes. Use:
    git fetch -> updates your local with all the remote branches 

5. Can i pull my teeam member's changes without PR into master?
    git fetch
    git checkout origin/<branch-name>

6. What happens if I forget the commit message?
VI - Visual Editor to add your commit message
Insert mode: press i key
    you can type your commit message while you're insert mode, type your message and exit
Exit inser mode: press esc key
Command mode: press :
    w -> save
    q -> quit
    :wq -> save and quit


7. Can I change the commit message before I push?
    git commit --amend

8. What is git stash and git stash apply?
    It's a way to resolve conflicts that are obvious

    1. I made some changes on local branch
    2. then someone updated remote master and I know that if i push my code it will create conflict
    3. Stash my changes: git stash
    4. Switch to master on local
    5. Pull the changes from remote master: git pull
    6. Switch back your local branch (you stashed changes)
    7. Merge local master changes into your local branch
    8. Retreive stashed changes: git stash apply
    9. This is going to create conflicts
    10. Resolve conflict, publish branch (add, commit push changes)

9. What is git fetch, git merge and git pull? Their differences?
    There are 2 ways to update your local branches with remote branches
    1. case master branch
        switch to master on your local and run 'git pull'
    2. Switch to master on your local and run 'git fetch' to retreive all the changes without merging
        then run 'git merge origin.master' to update your local master with remote changes

10. What else should I know about GIT commands?
LEARN:
     difference between git merge and git rebase





git log = shows all the history of commits and branches( to exit press: q)

to enter INSERT mode press: i (add message, and hit esc to exit insert mode, then press :wq which is save and quit)



In real life work, how often do you do the following?
sprint: period of time (2 weeks)
    3-5 branches
    7-10 commits
    3-5 PRs
    3-5 Pull changes

CONFLICT happens when 2 or more people change the same file and tehy push and merge their code to master
    - when you did not pull the latest remote/ master or remote/ main changes

IF it's a small conflict -> resolve inline (GitHub etc)
 If bigger conflict, pull the changes and resolve in your local
